FAQ about version control and team server (#4379)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/version-control/version-control-faq.md

---
title: "Version Control FAQ"
url: /refguide/version-control-faq/
category: "Version Control"
weight: 15
tags: ["git", "svn", "subversion", "teamserver", "byo-git", "byo-svn" ]
---

## 1 Introduction
[Mendix Team Server](/developerportal/collaborate/team-server/) is the Mendix-hosted environment that hosts all Mendix apps. It facilitates versioning your apps by integrating them into a version control system. Mendix Studio and Mendix Studio Pro integrate into the Team Server allowing you to create and update apps, commit changes, and merge model versions in one click.

> ## 2 What Version Control System Is Team Server Build On?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 2 What Version Control System Is Team Server Built On?
```

> Mendix Team Server is based on proven technology. Initially it was based only on top of Subversion (SVN), also called Team Server SVN. Starting from Mendix version 9.12.0, the Team Server also supports storing apps using Git technology, referred to as Team Server Git. 

Reviewer: Stick to **host** (line 10) or **store**.
I think **store** might be better as host might mean customers thing of Mendix Cloud Nodes?

Reviewer 2: I will go with "store".

Mendix 7 and 8 only have support for Team Server SVN, and as long as these major versions are available, support for Team Server SVN will be maintained.

## 3 What Are the Differences between Team Server SVN and Team Server Git?

Team Server Git has full feature parity with Team Server SVN, meaning both are integrated with Studio and Studio Pro, support cloud deployments, provide access to our various APIs, and support products like [AQM](/addons/aqm-addon/). 

As both technologies have fundamental differences, there are differences in the developer workflow. In SVN, it is possible to retrieve changes and apply them directly on uncommitted changes. 

In Git, conflict resolution can only be done on committed changes. This means you have to commit locally before being able to retrieve/pull changes from other developers. The advantage is that you can always see what you changed and you cannot accidentally override your local changes when you are resolving conflicts.

## 4 What Are the Advantages of Team Server Git over Team Server SVN?

Team Server Git has the following advantages over Team Server SVN:

> * Git is the standard for software version control as offered by, for example, GitHub, Gitlab, Azure, AWS, and Atlassian; and Subversion (SVN) has become outdated. So, this is modernization of the Mendix platform to align with the broader market and developer ecosystems.

Reviewer: Either semi-colon _or_ "and".
```suggestion
* Git is the standard for software version control as offered by, for example, GitHub, Gitlab, Azure, AWS, and Atlassian; Subversion (SVN) has become outdated. So, this is modernization of the Mendix platform to align with the broader market and developer ecosystems.
```

> * As Git stores a local version of the repository, developers are less dependent on a high speed internet connection and the need to synchronize their work with a central repository continuously. 

Reviewer: Isn't this a disadvantage when you are working collaboratively with Studio/Studio Pro?

Reviewer 2: @grootjans , I can agree with Mark that collaborative development is an advantage. Perhaps we could leave only the part about internet connection?

Author: I don't see this comment as any way to discourage collaborative development. This is merely the nature of git that you can make smaller commits, but not directly need to push to a central repository. This does not mean you should not do this, it merely adds the choice.

* Git has a technically more advanced and optimized communication protocol, which makes synchronizing changes to and from the central repository faster and more reliable.

> * It is possible to commit your changes, essentially creating a save point, without pushing those changes to the central repository immediately. This enables creating a coherent set of changes that can be pushed at once, while also allowing to commit those changes intermittently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* It is possible to commit your changes, essentially creating a save point, without pushing those changes to the central repository immediately. This enables creating a coherent set of changes that can be pushed at once, while also allowing you to commit those changes intermittently.
```

> * When retrieving changes from other developers, these changes might cause conflicts. When doing an update, a developer has to resolve these, and then commit the resolved changes. With Git, it is required to commit locally before retrieving these changes. Though this can seem cumbersome, it has the benefit that if the developer made a mistake when resolving conflicts, they can still view the changes they and their colleagues made and resolve them properly.

Reviewer: To clarify which changes we are talking about - I originally thought it was the other developer who would cause conflicts, but I think you mean the local changes conflict with the incoming changes - so (changing the pronoun to "you" to match the previous point). Also, are they "your colleagues" or "other developers", I prefer the former?
```suggestion
* Your locally-committed changes may cause conflicts with changes retrieved from your colleagues. When doing an update, you have to resolve these, and then commit the resolved changes. With Git, you have to commit locally before retrieving these changes. Though this can seem cumbersome, it has the benefit that if you made a mistake when resolving conflicts, you can still view the changes you and your colleagues made and resolve them properly.
```

> * Developers can use modern third-party Git tooling for advanced version control cases like handling file changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can use modern third-party Git tooling for advanced version control cases like handling file changes.
```

## 5 Can I Keep Using the Subversion Version of the Team Server?
Yes, as we are introducing Team Server Git, we will maintain support for Team Server SVN. As we improve our offering for Team Server Git, we will introduce options to migrate your apps to Team Server Git from Team Server SVN.

> Mendix focuses on improving Team Server Git support and migrating customers to Team Server Git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mendix  is focusing on improving Team Server Git support and migrating customers to Team Server Git.
```

## 6 Can I Migrate from Team Server SVN to Git?

> Currently, there is no out-of-the-box migration service available that keeps historical data. This service is planned for 2022.

Reviewer: It is already 2022. Perhaps "Q3 2022" or "later in 2022"?

Reviewer 2: @grootjans, do we want to be more specific in dates here?

Author: No, we don't have specifics at this moment.

Reviewer 2: @grootjans, I'll go with "later in 2022".

However, you can migrate manually by creating a new app based on Team Server Git, exporting the Team Server SVN app, and copying that to the new app repository. This does **not** preserve your app history.

## 7 Can I Use Third-Party Tools to Connect to the Team Server?

Yes, as the Team Server is based on a full implementation of Git or SVN. You can directly use third-party tools like TurtoiseSVN, TurtoiseGit, or GitHub Desktop by using the following repository URLs:

* Team Server SVN: `https://teamserver.sprintr.com/<your AppID>/` 
* Team Server Git: `https://git.api.mendix.com/<your AppID>.git`

> If you have Git-based apps, you can also connect to the local repository. 

Reviewer: Which local repository?
Or to you mean "**_a_** local repository" like in paragraph 8? If so, I think that paragraph 8 covers this in much more detail.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Studio Pro adds metadata on the Mendix version of your app to each revision when you commit or create a branch. Therefore, when committing or merging using third-party tools, it may no longer be possible to deploy to the Mendix Cloud. This can be fixed by making a commit using Studio Pro, so the correct metadata is present again.
{{% /alert %}}

## 8 Is It Possible to Connect to a Third-Party or On-Premises Version Control Server?

Yes, it is possible to connect to a third-party Subversion or Git version control repository, which is often called BYO-GIT or BYO-SVN (Bring Your Own Git/SVN).

However, in this case the following products and capabilities are not available:

* [Mendix Studio](/studio/general/) and the [collaborative development in Studio](/studio/collaboration/)

> * Deployment in the Developer Portal directly from the Team Server

Reviewer: Deploy _in_ sounds like this is where you are deploying it. I usually describe it more like a tool which you _use_.
```suggestion
* Deployment using the Developer Portal directly from the Team Server
```

* Integrated platform APIs such as the [App repository API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/app-repository-api/), [Build API](apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/build-api/), [Platform SDK](/apidocs-mxsdk/mxsdk/), [Permissions API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/permissions-api/), [Projects API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/projects-api/), [Stories API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/stories-api/), [User management API](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/user-management-api/), and [Developer portal webhooks](/apidocs-mxsdk/apidocs/webhooks-sprints/)
* [AQM](/addons/aqm-addon/) 

{{% alert color="info" %}}
For Git, connecting to a third-party Git version control repository is in Beta. For more information about the supported Git repositories, see [How to Work with Git On-Premises Version Control Server](/howto/collaboration-requirements-management/on-premises-git-howto/#preparing-your-repo).
{{% /alert %}}

## 9 Will Mendix 9 Support Pull Requests and Peer Reviews? 

Studio Pro supports peer review and merging through the version control functionalities available in Studio Pro. For more information on how to set this process up, see [Using Version Control in Studio Pro](refguide/using-version-control-in-studio-pro/).

> Currently, Mendix does not support pull or merge requests through the Team Server for Mendix. When using third-party tools it is possible to review code extensions: all code for Java & JavaScript actions, HTML/CSS for theming.

Reviewer: Make this more specific, I think.
```suggestion
Currently, Mendix does not support pull or merge requests through the Team Server for Mendix. When using third-party tools it is possible to review the following code extensions:
* code for Java & JavaScript actions
* HTML/CSS for theming
```
